Transfer of plone-nextjs PoC into the monorepo (#5545)
plone/volto: apps/nextjs/README.md

> # Plone on NextJS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Plone on Next.js
```

> This is a PoC of a [NextJS](https://nextjs.org) app using the app router and the `@plone/client` and `@plone/components` library. This is intended to serve as playground for the development of both packages and as demo of Plone using NextJS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a proof of concept of a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org) app, using the app router and the `@plone/client` and `@plone/components` library. This is intended to serve as both a playground for the development of both packages and as demo of Plone using Next.js.
```

## Development

To start, from the root of the monorepo:

```shell
pnpm install
pnpm --filter plone-nextjs run dev
```

> A running Plone backend instance should be running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then start the Plone backend:
```

```shell
make start-backend-docker
```

## Deployment at Vercel

> ### Vercel

Reviewer: Redundant to above heading, and the following text serves as an introduction.

```suggestion
```

> We are introducing an environment variable `API_SERVER_URL`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We introduce an environment variable `API_SERVER_URL`.
```

> We have to create this environment variable in the Vercel deployment's control panel, specifying the URL where your backend API server is deployed and the route where the api is located (see next section). (eg. API_SERVER_URL=https://my_server_DNS_name/api).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have to create this environment variable in the Vercel deployment's control panel, specifying the URL where your backend API server is deployed and the route where the API is located, such as `API_SERVER_URL=https://my_server_DNS_name/api`.
```

> ### Application rewrite config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Application rewrite configuragtion
```

> In order to avoid CORS and maintain the server counterpart private, our NextJS app should have a rewrite and should be configured as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid issues with CORS and maintain the server counterpart private, our Next.js app should have a rewrite, configured as follows:
```

> ```

Reviewer: Is this JSX?

````suggestion
```jsx
````

const nextConfig = {
  // Rewrite to the backend to avoid CORS
  async rewrites() {
    const apiServerURL =
      process.env.API_SERVER_URL ||
      'http://localhost:8080/Plone/%2B%2Bapi%2B%2B';

    return [
      {
        source: '/\\+\\+api\\+\\+/:slug*',
        destination:
          `${apiServerURL}/VirtualHostBase/https/${process.env.NEXT_PUBLIC_VERCEL_URL}%3A443/Plone/%2B%2Bapi%2B%2B/VirtualHostRoot/:slug*`,
      },
    ];
  },
};
```

> Plone Client is using the `++api++` prefix as default, so we should create a redirect in our app pointing to the api server, but using the traditional Plone's VHM config.

Reviewer: Avoid undefined acronyms. I guess VHM = "virtual host management"?

```suggestion
Plone Client uses the `++api++` prefix as default, so we should create a redirect in our app pointing to the API server, but using Plone's traditional virtual host management configuration.
```

> NextJS rewrites are picky on the `destination` field because the library that is used for it does not support URLS with regex operators.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next.js rewrites are picky on the `destination` field, because its rewrite library does not support URLs with regular expression operators.
```

Therefore, we can't use the usual `++api++` route for the rewrite.

> This will allow us to infer the current server URL (even in deployed branches/PRs) without touching the rewrite rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will allow us to infer the current server URL—even in deployed branches and pull requests—without touching the rewrite rules.
```

We will fallback to configure a `api` route in our reverse proxy of choice.

### Plone backend

You have to deploy the Plone backend elsewhere, since Vercel is serverless oriented.

> We need to setup the rewrite rule in NextJS's `rewrite` feature as shown in the previous section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to set up the rewrite rule in Next.js's `rewrite` feature as shown in the previous section.
```

> We will fallback to configure a `api` route in our reverse proxy of choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will fallback to configure an `api` route in our reverse proxy of choice.
```

> If we are using `traefik`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if we use `traefik`:
```

> ```

Reviewer: This needs a syntax language. Not sure what it is because I don't see a file extension to make a guess.

Author: Done

>         ## VHM rewrite /api/ (Plone NextJS)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ## VHM rewrite /api/ (Plone Next.js)
```

        - "traefik.http.middlewares.mw-backend-vhm-api.replacepathregex.regex=^/api($$|/.*)"
        ## We remove the incoming /api and just use the path
        - "traefik.http.middlewares.mw-backend-vhm-api.replacepathregex.replacement=$$1"

        ## /api router
        - traefik.http.routers.rt-backend-api.rule=Host(`my_server_DNS_name`) && PathPrefix(`/api`)
        - traefik.http.routers.rt-backend-api.entrypoints=https
        - traefik.http.routers.rt-backend-api.tls=true
        - traefik.http.routers.rt-backend-api.service=svc-backend
        - traefik.http.routers.rt-backend-api.middlewares=gzip,mw-backend-vhm-api
```

## About this app

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app).

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting started
```

First, run the development server:

```bash
pnpm dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/font-optimization) to automatically optimize and load Inter, a custom Google Font.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

> The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new) from the creators of Next.js.
```

# plone-nextjs

> This is a PoC of a NextJS 13 app using the app router and the upcoming `@plone/client` and `@plone/components`. This is intended to serve as playground for the development of both packages.

Reviewer 2: Since you use NextJS 14 already I think that NextJS app would be enough without specifying the version number making it easier to upgrade at any time

Author: @ichim-david I just improved the README
